1.Ec2 (elastic compute cloude)

             provide secure and reseieable compute capacity in cloude 

             1.scaling (instances scaled up mor down
             2.integrade with other service (s3,rds)
             3.pay for what you use
             4.instance can be launched in one or more regions and Az
             5.suport for diffarent os
             6.works with amazone VPC to provide secure network to resource
          
        
2.Database
             1.Amazon database services are – DynamoDB, RDS, RedShift, and ElastiCache

             2.number of AWS RDS(Relational Database) engines, such as:
               MySQL,Oracle,PostgreSQL,SQLServer,MariaDB,Amazon Aurora
 
             3.features of Amazon Database:Easy to administer,Highly scalable,Durable and reliable
               Faster performance,Highly available,More secure,Cost-effective

             4.Amazon DynamoDB service is a NoSQL database and server-less, and delivers
               consistent single-digit millisecond latency at any scale  

             5.key value store Key- value store is a database service that facilitates the 
               storing, updating, and querying of the objects which are generally identified
               with the key and values. These objects consist of the keys and values which constitute
               the actual content that is stored.

             6.DynamoDB - *Amazon DynamoDB is a fast and flexible NoSQL database service for all applications that require consistent 
                           single-digit millisecond latency at any scale. 

                          *It is a fully managed database that supports both document and key-value data models.  

                          *Its flexible data model and performance makes it a great fit for mobile, web, gaming
                            ad-tech, IOT, and many other applications. 

                          *It is stored in SSD storage.

                          *It is spread across three geographically data centres. 

                          *DynamoDB supports two types of primary keys: Partition key and sort key.

                          *DynamoDB supports two types of secondary indexes: Global secondary index and Local secondary index.

                          *Local secondary index : An index that has the same partition key as the base table, but a different sort key.

                          *A read capacity unit is a single consistent read per second for items no larger than 4KB.A write capacity unit is a
                            single write per second for items no bigger than 1KB.

                          *DynamoDB allows 20 attributes.

             7.Benefits of using Amazon DynamoDB - *Being a self-managed service, DynamoDB doesn’t require the experts for setup,
                                                     installation, cluster etc.
                                                   *It provides inevitable and faster performance.
                                                   *It is highly scalable, available, and durable.
                                                   *It provides very high throughput at the low latency.
                                                   *It is highly cost-effective.
                                                   *It supports and allows the creation of dynamic tables with multi-values
                                                     attributes i.e. it’s flexible in nature.

             8.DynamoDB Mapper Class - The mapper class is the entry point of the DynamoDB.It allows users to enter the DynamoDB and
                                       access the endpoint. DynamoDB mapper class helps users access the data stored in various tables,
                                       then execute queries, scan them against the tables, and perform CRUD operations on the data items.


           9.DynamoDB supports different types of data types such as collection data types, scalar data types, and even null values.

           10.Scalar Data Types –  The scalar data types supported by DynamoDB are:*Binary *Number *Boolean *String
         
           11.Collection Data Types – The collection data types supported by DynamoDB are:*Binary Set *Number Set *String Set *Heterogeneous Map
                                                                                          *Heterogeneous List

           12.DynamoDB Auto Scaling specifies its specialized feature to automatically scale up and down its
               own read and write capacity or global secondary index.

           13. Amazon RDS-RDS stands for Relational Database Service by which a user can easily manage and scale a relational database
                            in the cloud. You can focus on your application and business instead of managing the time-consuming data 
                            administration works.The user can access his files anywhere on the go with high scalability and cost-effective
                            manner.
                             
          14.Amazon RDS The database engines that are supported by Amazon RDS are Amazon Aurora, MySQL, MariaDB,Oracle, SQL Server, 
              and PostgreSQL database engine.
          
          15. What is the work of Amazon RDS:When a user wants to set up a relational database then Amazon RDS is used.It provisions the
                                              infrastructure capacity that a user requests to install the database software. 
                                              Once the database is set up and functional RDS automates the tasks like patching up of the
                                              software, taking the backup of the data and management of synchronous data replication with
                                              automatic failover.

         16.What is the purpose of standby RDS instance:The main purpose of launching a standby RDS instance is to prevent the
                                                         infrastructure failure (in case failure occurs) so it is stored in a different
                                                         availability zone which is a totally different infrastructure physically and
                                                         independent.

         17.Are RDS instances upgradable or downgradable according to the need?:Yes, you can upgrade the RDS instances with the help of 
              following command:modify-db-instance. If you are unable to detect the amount of CPU needed to upgrade then start with  db.m1.small
              DB instance class and monitor the utilization of CPU with the help of tool Amazon CloudWatch Service.
 
          
